NAME
    Video::DVDRip - GUI for copying DVDs, based on an open Low Level API

DESCRIPTION
    This Perl module consists currently of two major components:

      1. A low level OO style API for ripping and transcoding
         DVD video, which is based on Thomas Oestreichs program
         transcode, a Linux Video Stream Processing Tool.
         This API is currently well undocumented.

      2. A Gtk+ based Perl program called 'dvd::rip' which provides
         a nice GUI to control all necessary steps from ripping,
         adjusting all parameters and transcoding the video to
         the format you desire.

    The distribution name is derived from the Perl namespace it occupies:
    Video::DVDRip. Although the DVD Ripper GUI is called dvd::rip, because
    it's shorter and easier to pronounce (if you omit the colons... ;)

PREREQUISITES
    transcode

    dvd::rip delegates all the low level DVD handling to transcode, which
    can be obtained here:

      http://www.theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de/~ostreich/transcode/

    dvd::rip expects all transcode binaries to be found in the standard
    search PATH.

    Image Magick

    For image processing dvd::rip uses the widely distributed software
    package Image Magick, at least the programs identify and convert should
    be installed on your system. All versions above version 4 should work
    (actually tested with 5.3.1). dvd::rip does not use Perl Magick.

    Perl Modules

    For its GUI component dvd::rip needs the Perl Gtk module, which presumes
    Gtk+ version 1.2 or higher. I tested dvd::rip with Version Perl Gtk
    0.7008.

    You can find the Gtk module on CPAN, e.g.:

      http://www.perl.org/CPAN/modules/by-module/Gtk/

    For cluster mode you need the Event and the Storable module:

      http://www.perl.org/CPAN/modules/by-module/Event/
      http://www.perl.org/CPAN/modules/by-module/Storable/

    xine

    If you have the movie player xine installed, you can preview selected
    DVD titles with the appropriate audio channels. Maybe I'll support
    mplayer, too, in upcoming versions.

DOWNLOADING
    You can download dvd::rip from any CPAN mirror. You will find it in the
    following directory:

      http://www.perl.org/CPAN/modules/by-authors/id/J/JR/JRED/

    I recommend downloading from a mirror, which are listed here

      http://www.perl.org/CPAN/SITES.html

    You'll also find recent information, some screenshots and documentation
    on the dvd::rip homepage:

      http://www.exit1.org/dvdrip/

INSTALLATION
    First install all packages listed in the PREREQUISITES section.

    Then extract the .tar.gz file, change into the created directory and
    generate the Makefile and execute make:

      perl Makefile.PL
      make

    Among other things this builds the binary program 'splitpipe', which
    uses dvd::rip for ripping and scanning the DVD in the same run.

    Now it's up to you to type

      make install
  
    which installs all the Perl modules in your Perl library path, and the
    two executables

      dvdrip
      splitpipe

    in your Perl bin directory. Otherwise you can use dvd::rip right here
    and now by executing the 'dvdrip' program from the build directory.

BASE CONFIGURATION / PREFERENCES
    On first startup of dvd::rip you should check the global preferences in
    the Edit menu. Enter your DVD configuration and data directory here. The
    defaults will most likely not work on your system.

    These settings are stored in your home directory:

      ~/.dvdriprc

    Remove this file for falling back to the defaults.

NOW HAVE FUN
    Create a new project by choosing the appropriate entry of the main menu.
    The GUI should be more or less self-explanatory. Please check my
    homepage for more details on using dvd::rip.

BUG REPORTS / CONTRIBUTING
    If you find bugs or have suggestions which make dvd::rip a better tool:
    don't hesitate to send me emails (see AUTHOR section below).

    If you find a bug which crashes dvd::rip, please add the following
    information to your report:

      1. information about your Linux installation, which may be interesting
         (Kernel version, Distro version, X11 Version)

      2. information about your Perl installation. Simply send me
         the output of the "perl -V" command.

      3. if possible a description how the bug can be reproduced.

    Patches are welcome. I prefer unified context diffs created this way:

      diff -urN Video-DVDRip-0.21 Video-DVDRip-0.21.patched

    where Video-DVDRip-0.21 is the root directory of the original
    distribution and Video-DVDRip-0.21.patched your modified version.

    If you encounter problems ripping specific DVDs, this is probably a
    transcode problem. Maybe you want to report this directly to Thomas
    Östreich. If you're not sure about this, report the problem to me and
    I'll see what I can do for you.

AUTHOR
    Joern Reder <joern@zyn.de>

    You can contact me by email. Please place the word "dvd::rip" everywhere
    in the subject, in addition to your real topic, because this helps me
    classifying your email correctly. Thanks.

    I'm native german speaker, so you can send your mails in german, if you
    want. The others have to accept my rough english ;)

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (C) 2001-2002 by Joern Reder, All Rights Reserved.

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

SEE ALSO
    perl(1).

CHANGES
    $Id: Changes,v 1.64 2002/03/17 18:55:24 joern Exp $

    Revision history for Perl extension Video::DVDRip

    0.37 Sun Mar 17 2002, joern
	Note:
	- first finish all Cluster Mode projects before updating.
	  Job workflow and file system layout did change.
	- creating target AVI files >2GB does not work in Cluster
	  Mode due to problems with transcode's avimerge program.
	  Maybe this doesn't work on my system only, so if anyone
	  has success building larger files, please drop me a note.

	Features:
	- Cluster Mode:
	  - Now the overall runtime for a project is printed when 
	    it's finished.
	  - executed commands are now logged already at the default
	    log level 2
	  - due to on error aborted jobs doesn't stop the node
	    anymore. If you stop a node the corresponding job doesn't
	    get the 'aborted' state, instead it's set to 'waiting'.
	    This way one aborted job doesn't effect the whole process
	    by blocking the corresponding node.

	Bugfixes:
	- Cluster Mode:
	  - was still broken, if a title consists of more than one
	    PSU. Now the whole internal workflow changed. Audio
	    transcoding is done for the whole movie, not per PSU.
	    There is no merge per PSU anymore. All chunks are merged
	    into one AVI, before adding the audio.
	  - one side effect of this change is, that it's not possible
	    to select which PSUs should be processed. The corresponding
	    selection list disappeared from the Edit Cluster Project
	    dialog. All PSUs are always processed from now, as in
	    standard mode.
	  - scheduler: local jobs of other projects with lower priority
	    were preferred instead of finishing the actual project first.
	  - fps and ETA of transcode video/audio jobs are now more exact,
	    particularly at the beginning of the job.

    0.36 Thu Mar 14 2002, joern
	Bugfixes:
	- Cluster Mode:
	  - audio merging didn't work if the movie had more
	    than one PSU, because the target directory wasn't
	    created in that case. Thanks to Sebastian Beneke
	    <sebastian AT beneke-it.de> for his bug report.

    0.35 Wed Mar 13 2002, joern
	Features:
	- Cluster mode:
	  - added test procedure which checks if a node is
	    configured correctly: ssh connection, r/w NFS access
	    and transcode version match are checked. Currently
	    this works by comparing the output of a test script
	    executed on the node and the machine where the dvd::rip
	    GUI runs on. You can execute the test procedure
	    from the "Edit Node" window.
	  - the "audio processing" job is now splitted into two
	    jobs: audio transcoding and a/v multiplexing. This
	    enables running the audio transcoding in parallel with
	    other jobs, e.g. video transcoding. Finally the audio
	    and video chunks have to be multiplexed, what is
	    single threaded again, but much faster than the old
	    audio processing job, which blocks the project nearly
	    at the end for a longer time, what was really
	    frustrating ;). Thanks to Rainer Lay for his idea.
	  - minimum chunk count is now (online nodes + 1) instead
	    of 2.
	  - you can start dvdrip with option -c to open the
	    cluster control window without opening a main window

	Bugfixes:
	- audio bitrate was always set to AC3 passthrough bitrate
	  when a project was opened from file
	- Cluster mode:
	  - in rare cases and when there was heavy traffic on the
	    network, the Cluster Control Daemon erroneously
	    determined that a node is offline and aborted the
	    current job. Now the offline state is checked twice,
	    so this shouldn't happen anymore.

    0.34 Sun Mar 03 2002, joern
	Note:
	- Cluster mode: you need the pstree command on the cluster
	  control computer from now

	Features:
	- Cluster mode:
	  - now you can reset a single job, if something went wrong
	    with it, so you don't have to start the whole project
	    again. All dependent jobs are reset automatically.
	    Thanks to Sloan Poe for his suggestion.
	  - cluster mode scheduler optimization regarding the
	    delegation of IO intensive jobs preferably to nodes
	    with local resp. fast file system access. In earlier
	    versions a local node could be blocked too early by
	    a non-local job, so local jobs later had to be
	    delegated to non-local nodes. The scheduler now
	    tries delegating local jobs to local nodes first,
	    and then normal jobs to idle nodes, if there are any.
	  - you can optionally let dvd::rip delete the VOBs
	    after finishing, making bigger project queues possible,
	    even with little harddisk space (but is risky, if
	    something goes wrong).
	- AC3 audio passthrough support. If you're upgrading and
	  you have an existent project, you need to rip the title
	  again, because the necessary probing is done directly
	  after ripping. There is no restriction for new projects.
	- Currently it's not possible to use AC3 passthrough in
	  cluster mode, because I hadn't the time to test it.
	- the layout of the Transcode Tab changed slightly, to get
	  space for the AC3 radio buttons.
	- all directories are now created with mode 0775, to
	  prevent file access problems in cluster mode, if
	  the user ids of all nodes doesn't match. Suggested
	  by Sloan Poe.
	- range transcoding: default for the start value is 0.
	  default for end value is number of frames. Until now
	  you had to fill both values to get a range transcoding.
	  Suggested by Douglas Bollinger <dcb AT 321.net>.

	Bugfixes:
	- Cluster mode:
	  - on some systems stopping a node didn't work (dvd::rip
	    hung). Now the child process is killed explicitely and
	    this should work on any system. You need 'pstree' on
	    the cluster control computer from now. Thanks to
	    Sloan Poe, who helped me debugging this problem.
	  - in multipass mode dvd::rip tried moving the AVI file
	    to its final destination after the first pass. This
	    threw an error message, but had no other effect.
	    Anyway it was useless and confusing.
	  - switching off avisplit of a just added project didn't work
	- removed DVD mount point from preferences, because this
	  isn't needed anymore

    0.33 Tue Feb 19 2002, joern
	Bugfixes:
	- The node name/hostname feature didn't work. The cluster
	  control daemon always tried to fping the node name instead
	  of the hostname. Thanks to Rainer Lay for the bug report.

    0.32 Mon Feb 18 2002, joern
	Features:
	- (one feature so this isn't only a bugfix release ;)
	  You can enable a transcoding preview window. You need
	  the filter_preview transcode plugin, which is build
	  automatically if you have libdv installed on your system.
	  Also your X Server must have XV support.
	  Really nice feature. Useless, but fancy ;)
	  Warning: closing the preview window will kill the
	  transcode process.

	Bugfixes:
	- Some cluster jobs were aborted due to timeout accidentally.
	  Because there occur some really strange problems with
	  the output of avimerge, I disabled the timeout completely.
	  This shouldn't matter, because it was added to prevent
	  hanging ssh sessions which prompt for a password. This
	  case is catched anyway not using a timeout, so everything
	  should work better this way. Thanks for the reports to
	  Andrew Yantis and Rainer Lay.
	- project progress didn't count aborted jobs. They are now
	  added to the waiting value. Thanks to Rainer again for
	  this one.
	- nice -n made problems with tcsh. Using /usr/bin/nice
	  instead. Guess who reported this one? Yes. Thanks Rainer ;)
	- no progress was shown on avisplit due to a bug in the
	  avisplit output parsing regex.

    0.31 Sun Feb 17 2002, joern
	Features:
	- You can provide additional transcode options on the
	  Transcode Tab. These options are added to the
	  internal transcode call, resp. they override corresponding
	  options already computed by dvd::rip. This is for experts
	  who want to use special transcode features not currently
	  officially supported by dvd::rip (or to fix dvd::rip bugs
	  which are not fixed yet ;).
	- adjusting the nice level of the transcode process per
	  project (also used in cluster mode) on the Transcode Tab.
	  Suggested by Hrvoje Husic.
	- Cluster Mode:
	  - error handling for remotely executed commands. The last
	    lines received from the command are logged, so you can
	    see what's going wrong. Also the corresponding node will
	    be aborted. You have to start it again, otherwise no jobs
	    will be scheduled to it. This prevents infinite job
	    execution on a false configured node.
	  - internal node name and hostname of the node are now
	    distinguished (useful to address multi processor machines
	    as multiple nodes). Suggested by Rainer Lay.
	  - additional transcode options per node (samy funcionality as
	    described for non cluster mode above). One good example
	    for this is increasing transcode threads if you have a multi-
	    processor node (e.g. -u 4,2). Suggested by Peter Lohmann.

	Bugfixes:
	- cluster daemon hung if ssh prompted for a password.
	- made TOC list wider so content should fit better
	
    0.31_05 Tue Feb 13 2002, joern
	Bugfixes:
	- All regarding the cluster mode and reported by
	  Rainer Lay <Rainer.Lay AT informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
          - command execution via the hardwired 'ssh -CP' command
	    made problems, at least with OpenSSH. You now can
	    configure the ssh command per Node in the Edit Node
	    window. Default is 'ssh -C' which should work on most
	    systems.
	  - many commands had a construct "test dir || mkdir -p dir",
	    where the "test" command is a nop, because "mkdir -p"
	    doesn't fail, if the directory exists. Removed the "test"
	    command.

    0.31_04 Tue Feb 12 2002, joern
	Features:
	- Added a job list to the cluster mode, accompanied by
	  rewriting some internals. This was necessary to get rid
	  of the PSU problem without messing up the internal
	  cluster workflow. The advantage is, now you can exactly
	  see what steps have to be done.

	Bugfixes:
	- cluster mode now supports titles encoded in more than
	  one program stream unit. Thanks to Thomas Östreich for
	  his help.
	- Net::Ping was loaded in cluster mode, but is not
	  required anymore.
	- Hrvoje Husic told me, that 760 MB seems to be the maximum
	  to burn on an 800 MB medium, so I corrected the
	  corresponding disc popup entry.
	- Layout of the Transcode Tab was somewhat messed up, at
	  least with the default Gtk theme. I shrinked the buttons
	  so now everything should fit. Thanks to Torsten Howard 
	  <torsten AT inetw.net> for reporting this "buglet"
	  (his word ;)

    0.31_03 Sat Feb 09 2002, joern
	Note:
	- Cluster mode is currently useless for titles with more
	  than one program stream unit (that means: many DVDs
	  are affected). I'm working on this issue, resp. am
	  in contact with Thomas Östreich to check, whether
	  transcode or dvd::rip should fix this.
	- WARNING: first finish all your cluster projects before
	  upgrading to this version, because cluster file names
	  changed.

	Features:
	- Cluster Mode
	  - multipass encoding now supported
	  - show ETA for transcoding and audio processing states
	  - optional avisplit and cleanup after transcoding. you
	    can edit these project properties in the Cluster Control
	    window
	  - cluster control daemon can be shut down from the GUI
	- multipass encoding: omit audio on first pass,
	  thanks to Norbert Preining for his hint.
	- better NTSC Support, suggested by Norbert Preining
	  - set frame rate by default to 23.976, but user can
	    overwrite it
	  - set transcode options: -g 720x480 -M 2
	- disc popup now has an entry for 800 MB discs,
	  thanks to Hrvoje Husic <husic AT zyn.de> for his hint.

	Bugfixes:
	- Cluster Mode
	  - adding a node with an existent name crashed the
	    cluster control daemon
	  - dvd::rip GUI now handles cluster daemon exits cleanly
	  - View AVI works now for cluster transcoded titles
	  - adding chapter mode titles to the cluster is
	    prevented now
	  - project removal threw an exception, sometimes
	  - no volume rescaling was done
	  - daemon crashed if a log client sent something
	- Storable module was required, even when no cluster
	  stuff was activated. Thanks to Timothy Harris
	  <tim AT pongle.net> and Torsten Howard <torsten
	  AT inetw.net> for their bug reports.

    0.31_02 Mon Feb 04 2002, joern
	Bugfixes:
	- sometimes dvd::rip stopped transcoding too short.
	  This release should fix this problem. Thanks to
	  Doug Shea for his bug report and
	  <ulmo AT garozzo.franken.de> for the hint, which
	  led me to the solution (omitting the transcode
	  -c 0-n parameter).

    0.31_01 Sun Feb 03 2002, joern
	Features:
	- all generated files and directories now have names
	  with correct alphanumerical order. Thanks to Doug Shea
	  <doug_shea AT alumni.ucsd.edu> for his patch.

	  WARNING: First finish all projects before upgrading
		   to this version, because dvd::rip 0.31_01
		   will badly fail finding files generated with
		   previous versions!!!

	- this is the first public pre-release with cluster
	  transcoding support. Please refer to the dvd::rip
	  homepage for documentation about this.
	- omit '-J skip="0-2"' in chapter mode if transcode
	  version >= 0.6 is detected. Thanks for the hint go
	  to Norbert Preining and Ron Smits <rons AT ronsmits.com>.


	Bugfixes:
	- opened project was not closed, if you opened it via
	  command line option and opened a new project via
	  menu

    0.30 Sat Jan 19 2002, joern
	Features:
	- Christian Lambert sent me an enhanced version of my
	  fast resize calculator kspread file.

	Bugfixes:
	- creating a new project failed with an exception,
	  thanks to Christian Lambert for his bug report.
	- splitpipe did not work correctly if you use transcode
	  0.5.x, thanks to Marc Wäckerlin <mrw AT atheismus.ch>
	  for his bug report.
	- opening the "Show transcode commands" window without
	  an opened project threw an exception.

    0.30_01 Sat Jan 12 2002, joern
	Quick pre-release, because I like this feature so much ;)

	Features:
	- added fast frame grabbing using the vob navigation
	  information created by 'tcdemux -W' for transcode
	  >= 0.6.0pre. Frame grabbing now needs a constant
	  amount of time (2-3 seconds on my A1000 workstation),
	  regardless of the frame number, you entered.
	  transcode 0.5.x is still supported, using the -c
	  option, which is slow because it decodes all precedent
	  frames. Thanks to Thomas Östreich, who helped me
	  demystifying the navigation logfile ;)

    0.29 Thu Jan 10 2002, joern
	Features:
	- transcode version is detected on startup, so different
	  behaviour for different transcode versions is possible.
	- preparing for cluster mode: dvd::rip already creates
	  the neccessary vob navigation logging data.

	Bugfixes:
	- ripping progress bar enabled for transcode >= 0.6.0
	  (you *must* use at least transcode-0.6.0pre2-20020107.
	  Older 0.6.0 pre-releases will cause dvd::rip to fail
	  badly or just freezing it). dvd::rip uses the new -W
	  switch of tcdemux to get the progress in the ripping 
	  stage. This gives even enough information to calculate
	  fps. Coooool... ;)
	- You can use dvd::rip with transcode 0.5.x (x>=3),
	  but the ripping progress bar will be disabled.

    0.29_01 Sun Jan 07 2002, joern
	Bugfixes:
	- DVD TOC reading completely reorganized. Should work now
	  more reliable with all DVDs. Due to this there is currently
	  no progress bar for ripping available.
	- DVD TOC missed scrollbars
	- transcode progress bar did not work with transcode 0.6pre

    0.28 Fri Jan 04 2002, joern
	Features:
	- I added a contrib directory to the distribution, currently
	  containing a KSpread file which helps calculating fast resize
	  values. I'm planning to integrate a native and quite more usable
	  version of this sheet into dvd::rip, but maybe this helps someone
	  while this feature is not finished. On the other hand the
	  presets are working well for most DVDs, so this is currently
	  a nice to have feature for me.

	Bugfixes:
	- avisplit progress bar missed percentage and ETA.
	- fast resize option did not always complain about illegal
	  values, thanks to Christian Lambert <clambert AT csd.sgi.com>
	  for the bug report.

    0.28_03 Thu Jan 03 2002, joern
	Features:
	- Full viewing angle support, requested by Certron DiSoni
	  <certron_80 AT yahoo.com>. You can select the viewing
	  channel after reading the TOC. Only the selected angle
	  will be ripped from the DVD. This way I was able to rip
	  german Star Wars Episode I, with the german intro.

	Bugfixes:
	- transcode progress bar missed percentage and ETA.

    0.28_02 Thu Jan 03 2002, joern
	Again a pre-release due to major changes in the progress module
	and chapter mode code. Please test it. Thanks.

	Features:
	- enhanced chapter mode suggested by Tim Currie <jtcurrie AT
	  mediaone.net>: dvd::rip now shows a multi selection list
	  of avaiable chapters per title. Now you can decide which
	  chapters should be ripped and transcoded. Currently no progress
	  bar is shown in the chapter selection mode, only the elapsed
	  time will be printed. Also avisplit is currently not available
	  in chapter mode. I'm not shure, if transcode reports the correct
	  number of chapters. Often the higher chapters are empty or
	  at least *very* short.
	- major code cleanup in the progress bar module. Among other things
	  a Gtk input handler is used instead of a Gtk idle function.
	  This way the GUI responses much better. Also all calculations
	  (elapsed time, ETA, fps) are done by dvd::rip now and available
	  for all tasks.

	Bugfixes:
	- fixed chapter mode transcoding progress bar / logging problem
	- dvd::rip failed if the project path was not absolute. Thanks to
	  George Farris <george AT gmsys.com> for the report.

    0.28_01 Fri Dec 28 2001, joern
	This is a pre release for testing the new Chapter Mode feature.
	Please use this version only, if you're interested in this feature
	or if you want to test it in general. Also non-Chapter-Mode ripping
	may be affected or buggy.

	Features:
	- Chapter Mode, suggested by Norbert Preining.
	  You have to enable this on the RIP Title Tab before ripping,
	  because each chapter will be ripped into a separate directory.
	  Transcoding in chapter mode will lead to one AVI file for
	  each chapter. The progress bar guesses sometimes wrong, but the
	  result should be Ok. Splitting in Chapter Mode is not supported
	  and makes no sense in general.
	- removed the tcprobe-random-title-permutation workaround,
	  because this tcprobe bug is fixed in transcode 0.5.3

	Bugfixes:
	- dvd::rip didn't work with transcode 0.5.3 due to changes
	  of tcprobe output. Thanks to Thomas Speck <thomas-speck
	  AT gmx.de> for his bug report. This release has a workaround
	  fixing this problem. Another solution is to patch transcode
	  0.5.3 with a patch published by Thomas Östreich on his
	  transcode homepage.

    0.27 Tue Dec 18 2001, joern
	Bugfix:
	- this release fixes only a minor bug in the debugging window
	  and log file output. The snapshot command missed the
	  frame number, so the -c option was malformed.

    0.26 Sun Dec 16 2001, joern
	Bugfix:
	- tar.gz distribution was incomplete. Updated MANIFEST.

    0.25 Sat Dec 15 2001, joern
	Features:
	- create logfile of all processes, display it in a separate
	  logging tab
	- renamed "Snapshot Directory" to "Temp Directory", because
	  it's used not only for the snapshot images. DivX4 analyze logs
	  and the dvd::rip log are also stored here.

	Bugfixes:
	- "transcode & split" did not work
	- spaces in project name not allowed, thanks to
	  Matthias Rieber <matthias AT lsoe.uni-karlsruhe.de>
	  for the bug report. dvd::rip did not work correctly
	  with spaces in the project name. Checking of other
	  user supplied values is still on my TODO list.

    0.24 Thu Dec 13 2001, joern
	Just a major release, no changes since pre-release.

    0.24_02  Tue Dec 11 2001, joern
	Features:
	- You can open a debugging window, which shows all transcode
	  commands executed by dvd::rip by pressing Ctrl+T or selecting the
	  "Debug/Show Transcode Commands..." menu item. Thanks to
	  Norbert Preining for his suggestion. This should help finding
	  bugs in dvd::rip, where wrong transcode options are genereated,
	  or something similar.
	- modified 16:9 anamorph fast resizing Preset: added 2nd Clipping
	  to get rid of 4 black top and bottom lines
	- Added a transcode title number field to the rip tab. This way
	  you can workaround the transcode/libdvdread bug which results
	  to wrong assigned titles. Please use this with care and only
	  if you know, what you do. This fields changes only the title
	  number passed to all transcode commands. The dvd::rip filenames
	  will be named with the orignally (maybe wrong) scanned title nr.
	  Thanks to Bjoern Buerger <b.buerger AT tu-bs.de> for his
	  suggestion.

	Bugfixes:
	- Preset "16:9 Anam. Enc., No Letterbox, Fast Resize" did not
	  switch fast resizing on
	- Fast Resizing: 32 pixel boundary must be given only for
	  axes which are resized. Thanks to Norbert Preining for
	  his patch.
	- dvd::rip now checks, whether VOB files are already ripped,
	  even if the project file says, they're not (e.g. if you
	  forget to save after ripping, restart dvd::rip and create
	  a new project for this DVD). Thanks to Norbert Preining
	  for the hint.
	- dvd::rip now checks if the needed programs (transcode,
	  ImageMagick etc.) are installed and complains if not.
	  Thanks to Michal Szymanski <msz AT astrouw.edu.pl> for his
	  bugreport.

    0.23  Sun Dec 09 2001, joern
	Bugfixes:
	- fast resizing: 32 pixel boundary check ommited checking the
	  clip1 size
	- transcode progress label did always show the "split afterwards"
	  message, even if started without splitting.

    0.22  Sun Dec 09 2001, joern
	Features:
	- Support of the fast resizing algorithm of transcode
	  (transcode-0.5.2-20011206 is recommended because of
	  a bug in the horizontal fast resize code in earlier
	  versions). Fast resizing presumes 32 pixel boundaries.
	  If you break with this rule, you'll get an error window
	  on transcoding. I'm planning a wizard which helps
	  calculating the correct values, because this can be a
	  brain squeezing task ;)
	- Added two new Presets for anamorph transcoding using the
	  fast resizing algorithm. They should bypass the time,
	  until the fast resizing wizard is finished.
	- Support of multipass DivX encoding.
	- Added a button to the Transcode tab for viewing the
	  transcoded non-splitted AVI file.
	- transcode progress label shows, whether started with or
	  without splitting

	Bugfixes:
	- applied Perl 5.005 patch supplied by Norbert
	  Preining <preining AT logic.at>. Thanks.
	- DVD read-toc code always tried a mount, even if the
	  DVD was already mounted. This could confuse systems
	  using automounter.

    0.21  Sat Dec 01 2001, joern
	Features:
	- transcode 0.5.1 supports 4GB AVI files, so max.
	  filesize for the bitrate suggestion is now 4000 MB
	  (was 2000 MB with transcode 0.5.0)

	Bugfixes:
	- fixed color problem with snapshot images

    0.20  Tue Nov 27 2001, joern
	- First public release. Should be usable but is not tested
	  with thousands of DVDs.

